.TH pybill 1 "2010-07-08" "Pybill"

.SH NAME
pybill \- produces PDF bills from XML


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pybill [ options ] <src>
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
PyBill reads an XML file describing an accounting document (bill, 
claim-form, debit, downpayment, pro-forma) and produces a PDF 
document. The XML document should be in PBD (PyBill Document) 
format.
.PP
PyBill uses a configuration XML file to customize the PDF rendering 
(logo, sender address, sender bank data, i18n texts, etc.) This 
configuration file can be specified with a command-line option or in 
the XML document into a dedicated processing instruction. In this last 
case, the configuration file is search in the user configuration 
directory ($HOME/.config/pybill) and then in the system configuration 
directory (/etc/config/pybill).
.PP
Example:
.PP
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<?pybill config="my-config"?>
<accounting document type="bill" format="1.0">
and so on
.PP
Here, PyBill will search the my-config.xml XML file in the 
configuration directories. If it cann't be found, PyBill will backup 
on default.xml configuration file (that it is at least installed in 
the system configuration directory).
.PP
PyBill can produce accounting entries in an XML format compatible with 
pycompta tool. By default, the entries are generated in an entries.xml 
file. Command-line options control this generation.  When several XML 
documents are processed in one call, a single entries.xml file is 
generated but it contains several accounting entries. Another 
dedicated processing instruction can be inserted in the XML document 
to specify the accounts number used in the entries.
.PP
Example:
.PP
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<?pybill config="my-config"?>
<?accounts client="41101" client-holdback="41102" 
           product="7001" vat="44501"?>
<accounting-document type="bill" format="1.0">
and so on
.PP
Here, PyBill will generate accounting entries using the 41101 account 
as the client account, the 41102 for the holdbacks concerning this 
client, the 7001 as the product account and the 44501 for all the VAT 
movements.
.SS "Command-line options:"
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show the help message and exit
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Show the version number and exit
.TP
\fB\-c\fR CFGFILE, \fB\-\-config\fR=CFGFILE
Name of the config file to be used for generating the PDFs of the 
accounting documents. This config file overrides the config specified 
in the processing instructions of each accounting document.
.TP
\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-convert\fR
Convert the processed accounting documents into the last 'PyBill 
Document' format and save them. The initial document is kept with 
a .old extension.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-no-entries\fR
Don't generate the accounting entries corresponding to the processed 
accounting documents.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR XMLFILE, \fB\-\-entries-files\fR=XMLFILE
Name of the file where the generated accounting entries will be saved 
in 'pycompta' format. By default, this is the entries.xml file.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
Print debug information and don't catch the exceptions.

.SH LICENCE
(c) 2001-2010 Logilab. GNU Public Licence Version 2

.SH SEE ALSO
/usr/share/doc/pybill/

.SH AUTHOR
Olivier Cayrol <olivier.cayrol@logilab.fr>
