[console_scripts]
dmpipe-calc-sed-limits = dmpipe.scripts.calc_sed_limits:main
dmpipe-collect-limits = dmpipe.dm_collect:CollectLimits.main
dmpipe-collect-limits-sg = dmpipe.dm_collect:CollectLimits_SG.main
dmpipe-collect-stacked-limits-sg = dmpipe.dm_collect:CollectStackedLimits_SG.main
dmpipe-convert-castro = dmpipe.dm_spectral:ConvertCastro.main
dmpipe-convert-castro-sg = dmpipe.dm_spectral:ConvertCastro_SG.main
dmpipe-pipeline-dsph = dmpipe.pipeline_dsph:main_chain
dmpipe-plot-control-limits-sg = dmpipe.dm_plotting:PlotControlLimits_SG.main
dmpipe-plot-control-mles-sg = dmpipe.dm_plotting:PlotControlMLEs_SG.main
dmpipe-plot-dm = dmpipe.dm_plotting:PlotDM.main
dmpipe-plot-dm-sg = dmpipe.dm_plotting:PlotDM_SG.main
dmpipe-plot-dm-spectra = dmpipe.dm_plotting:PlotDMSpectra.main
dmpipe-plot-final-limits-sg = dmpipe.dm_plotting:PlotFinalLimits_SG.main
dmpipe-plot-limits = dmpipe.dm_plotting:PlotLimits.main
dmpipe-plot-limits-sg = dmpipe.dm_plotting:PlotLimits_SG.main
dmpipe-plot-mles = dmpipe.dm_plotting:PlotMLEs.main
dmpipe-plot-stacked-dm-sg = dmpipe.dm_plotting:PlotStackedDM_SG.main
dmpipe-plot-stacked-limits-sg = dmpipe.dm_plotting:PlotStackedLimits_SG.main
dmpipe-prepare-targets = dmpipe.dm_prepare:PrepareTargets.main
dmpipe-spec-table = dmpipe.dm_spectral:SpecTable.main
dmpipe-stack-likelihood = dmpipe.dm_spectral:StackLikelihood.main
dmpipe-stack-likelihood-sg = dmpipe.dm_spectral:StackLikelihood_SG.main

